[Music]
ever since human beings left the safety
of the ground and aim for the sky
there was one big concern about the
whole flying thing how to get back to
earth safely
and it became even more important once
we had airplanes yep so what if there's
no airport nearby uh-oh
it turns out that the best bet is
landing on roadways but only a few
trained pilots can handle such a task
and only the best can handle the most
extreme cases did you know that landing
a plane on a road is highly illegal yes
in most countries it surely is but
there's also a universal rule of
necessity as pilots often say themselves
necessity knows no law or there's
another saying with a bit more of a dark
sense of humor total engine failure
imposes surprise destinations I'll say
jokes aside the rule of necessity
implies that in an emergency a pilot can
land a plane by any means possible the
only important thing is the effort to
save lives
the first thing a pilot would look for
as a landing place would be a highway
with no turning points over a
significant distance well they're not
intended for an airplane landing they
are in fact suitable because they're
well lived have a relatively smooth
surface and are wide enough to fit a
medium sized plane there are some major
challenges though look at the airstrip
and at the highway from up above as a
pilot would see it they look similar at
first glance but when you start to
notice the differences that could cause
a lot of trouble for example it's not a
problem for cars if there's a dense
forest alongside the road but for a
playing mmm-hmm that could be crucial
the same goes for street lights road
signs and other obstacles that a plane
would run into the worst is of course
road bridges if a plane can't stop
before one of these well the collision
would be a disaster
fortunately cases of big airplanes
landing on a highway are extremely rare
but believe it or not other smaller
aircraft land on roads regularly
there are no official numbers on that
matter but by some accounts there are at
least dozens of reports emerging in a
single year that involve a lightweight
plane having an emergency landing on a
road in most cases this happens due to
engine malfunction a bit rarer is
so-called fuel starvation and sometimes
you'll come across something like needed
to ditch a passenger noted as the cause
well that must have been one annoying
passenger to say the least in 1956 the
strangest thing happened
a man decided to land a plane in the
middle of Manhattan to win a bet yes I
kid you not this really happened this
desperate daredevil was Thomas
Fitzpatrick a person of immense piloting
skill which was arguably used in the
wrong way just to get a prize but his
achievement was still quite impressive
since he avoided any damage either to
himself the aircraft or the city's
property headlines of newspapers
exploded that day telling about a
single-engine plane landing on st.
Nicholas Avenue near 100 91st Street but
if you think a fine stop Thomas Fitz and
that his miraculous landing was just
lucky then you're probably under
estimating the adventurous nature of
some people and what can happen if it
comes with a unique skill in a package
deal this excellent pilot and notorious
troublemaker did the exact same thing
again two years later to prove he still
had it and once again with no harm to
anyone
after
prove the point the second time though
he decided that he wouldn't fly anymore
who knows if it was for the better or
the worse some might say that we live in
less adventurous times now but these
days no one will try to land on a road
without an extremely good reason a pilot
of a single-engine plane called a Piper
Malibu sure had one such reason when he
decided to land on iron springs Road in
Prescott Arizona to be sure of his
reasoning you only must take a look at
the condition the plane was in at the
end of this trip it was laying upside
down crashed and missing its wings but
don't worry somehow none of the three
people on board were hurt the plane
tried to get to the Prescott Airport but
was running out of fuel so it had to
find another place to glide to in the
process of landing one of the plane's
wings crashed into a streetlight pole
the pilot lost control immediately after
and the malibu piper spun around and
flipped on its roof fortunately the
police were already rushing over since
Prescott Airport informed them about a
possible accident well as the pilots
also say any landing you can walk away
from is a good landing anyway all is
well that ends well
though this flight was unfortunate for
the poor small plane itself still other
pilots were able to not only save
themselves from harm but their aircraft
too one such miracle happened in 2018 in
California imagine you're going to the
beach at the end of the week you're
stuck in traffic but you calm yourself
down by assuming that this is the worst
thing that will happen to you this day
then suddenly a plane rushes
right in front of him this is exactly
what happened a plane landed right in
the middle of Huntington Beach the
biggest challenge for the pilot was that
the street was webbed in electric cables
one tiny mistake and a whole city block
would lose power the consequences to the
plane would be far worse than that
never mind the people inside to glide
between wires and touch down without
hitting any of the cars on the road well
that's a one-in-a-million landing but
how do pilots do it
apparently there's one secret and it's
simple yet not too obvious the thing is
when landing a relatively small aircraft
slows down to a speed that on average is
just 20 miles per hour faster than the
speed of the traffic on a big enough
Road like a highway most of the time
drivers will have enough time to react
and get out of the way even for the most
unexpected guests like airplanes
therefore the cases in which cars
getting hit during a landing on the road
are quite rare pilots won't ever choose
a lane with opposite movement it's way
too dangerous we all like action movies
and movies about James Bond are among
the forever loved classics here what's
not to like almost comically cruel
characters sharp plot twists and of
course unforgettable stunts
most iconic stunts is the one with a
bd-5j jet flying through a hangar and
then landing near the gas station on the
road to fill her up one thing you
probably didn't know about this stunt is
that it was based on the real-life
experience of the stuntman that
performed it one day in 1975 this pilot
flew to an insane altitude of 11,500
feet on his way to Washington DC when
all of the sudden the jet started to
malfunction there was no oil pressure in
the engine after a rapid descent through
the clouds the pilot saw that things
were even worse there was nothing below
him but a dense forest a small jet
wouldn't survive a crash landing into
the trees but then he saw a ray of hope
a broad interstate appeared just a few
miles away from it the mastery of his
aircraft allowed him to glide towards
the road and get in line with it but as
he got closer there was more trouble the
traffic was busy that day what else
would be the obvious solution for a
stuntman besides landing on the roof of
a truck but instead he decided to just
talk to a driver that passed underneath
his jet and asked if he could slow down
and clear the road for him
you gently landed on the road and
coasted for some time until it came to
the gas station the staff member that
met him was shocked he couldn't say a
word and was just looking at the pilot
who also couldn't find his words finally
the man at the gas station assumed that
it was all a prank and he was being
filmed on a hidden camera if it was true
it would have been one of the most
expensive and difficult pranks in
history it's a good thing that the plane
was in the hands of a high-level
professional and is mind boggling if he
tried to think about all the things that
could have gone wrong here if you had to
experience an emergency landing what
place would you choose a road maybe a
field which one is scarier in your
opinion let me know down in the comments
if you learned something new today then
give this video a like and share it with
the Fred but hey don't go jetting off
anywhere just yet we have over two
thousand cool videos for you to check
out all you have to do is pick the left
or right video click on it and enjoy
remember stay on the bright side of life